content/lectures/08/index.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
<b>Lecture 08</b><br>
RNA-Seq data processing
</h1>
<p align="center">
<b>Date:</b> Sep 19, 2024
</p>

!!! danger "DRAFT"

    This page is a work in progress and is subject to change at any moment.

This lecture provides a comprehensive journey through the RNA-seq experimental process, from bench to bioinformatics. We'll explore the critical steps of sample preparation and sequencing, emphasizing how careful experimental design lays the foundation for robust transcriptomic insights. The session delves into the intricacies of RNA extraction and library preparation, highlighting the technical considerations that ensure high-quality data. By comparing various RNA-seq protocols, students will gain insight into selecting the right approach for specific research questions. We'll then navigate the computational landscape of RNA-seq data processing, addressing the unique challenges posed by the complexity of transcriptome data. This practical overview aims to equip students with a thorough understanding of RNA-seq methodology, preparing them to design, execute, and analyze transcriptomics experiments in diverse biological contexts.

## Learning objectives

What you should be able to do after today's lecture:

1.  Outline the key steps in an RNA-seq experiment, from sample preparation to sequencing.
2.  Explain the importance of experimental design in RNA-seq studies, including biological replicates and appropriate controls.
3.  Describe the process of RNA extraction and library preparation, highlighting critical considerations such as RNA quality and rRNA depletion.
4.  Compare different RNA-seq protocols (e.g., poly-A selection vs. total RNA sequencing) and their applications.
5.  Outline the basic workflow for processing raw RNA-seq data, including quality control, read trimming, and alignment to a reference genome.
6.  Discuss the challenges in RNA-seq data processing, such as handling splice junctions and multi-mapped reads.

## Readings

Relevant content for today's lecture.

TODO:

## Presentation

TODO:

Commit message:

Update topics on next lecture

content/lectures/08/index.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
<b>Lecture 08</b><br>
Read mapping
</h1>
<p align="center">
<b>Date:</b> Sep 19, 2024
</p>

!!! danger "DRAFT"

    This page is a work in progress and is subject to change at any moment.

We'll explore the challenges of aligning millions of short reads to a reference genome and discuss various algorithms and data structures that make this process efficient.
The session will focus on the Burrows-Wheeler Transform (BWT) and the FM-index, two key concepts that revolutionized read alignment by enabling fast, memory-efficient sequence searching.
We'll examine how these techniques are implemented in popular alignment tools and compare their performance characteristics.
Additionally, we'll address the complexities of handling mismatches, insertions, and deletions during alignment, as well as the challenges posed by repetitive sequences in genomes.

## Learning objectives

What you should be able to do after today's lecture:

1.  Define read alignment and explain its importance in genomic analysis pipelines.
2.  Describe the challenges associated with aligning short reads to a large reference genome.
3.  Explain the basic principles of the Burrows-Wheeler Transform (BWT) and its application in sequence alignment.
4.  Discuss the FM-index and how it enhances the efficiency of BWT-based alignments.
5.  Compare and contrast different read alignment algorithms, including hash-based and suffix tree-based approaches.
6.  Outline the steps involved in handling mismatches, insertions, and deletions during the alignment process.

## Readings

Relevant content for today's lecture.

TODO:

## Presentation

TODO:
