biosc1540/lectures/02/index.md, before:

# Lecture 02

**Date:** Aug 29, 2024

## Learning objectives

What you should be able to do after today's lecture.

1.  🧫 Define antibiotic resistance and assess its global impact on public health.
2.  🧫 Analyze challenges arising from antibiotic resistance and evaluate genomics' role in mitigating them.
3.  🧫 🧮 Explain the principles underlying Sanger sequencing.
4.  🧫 🧮 Outline the methodology of Illumina sequencing, specifically the sequencing by synthesis approach.
5.  🧫 🧮 Identify and contrast Sanger sequencing with Illumina sequencing, covering principles, methods, applications, and technological advancements.

## Readings

Relevant content for today's lecture.

-   [Genomics learning scenario](/modules/genomics/learning-scenario)
-   [Sequencing](/modules/genomics/sequencing/)

## Activities

-   [Outbreak Investigation Simulation: Mysterious Respiratory Illness](./amr-activity.md)

## Presentation

<!-- <iframe src="https://slides.com/aalexmmaldonado/biosc1540-2024s-l01/embed?byline=hidden&share=hidden" width="100%" height="600" title="biosc1540-2024s-L01" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe> -->

<!-- <p style="text-align: center;">
    <object hspace="50">
        <a href="/files/slides/pdfs/biosc1540-2024s-l01.pdf" target="_blank">PDF</a>
    </object>
</p> -->

Commit message:

Add draft of learning objectives

biosc1540/lectures/02/index.md, after:

# Lecture 02

**Date:** Aug 29, 2024

This lecture explores the foundation of genomics and its revolutionary impact on molecular biology. We'll journey through the evolution of DNA sequencing technologies, from the groundbreaking Sanger method to cutting-edge Illumina and Nanopore platforms. By comparing these technologies, we'll uncover the rapid advancements that have dramatically accelerated genomic research. We'll examine the strengths and limitations of each method, providing insight into their optimal applications. The session concludes with an overview of a typical DNA sequencing workflow, offering a practical understanding of how genomic data is generated. This comprehensive exploration aims to equip students with a solid grasp of genomic tools and their transformative role in modern biological research.

## Learning objectives

What you should be able to do after today's lecture:

1.  Define genomics and explain its relationship to molecular biology concepts.
2.  Explain the fundamental principles of Sanger sequencing, including its historical importance in genomics.
3.  Compare Illumina sequencing to Sanger sequencing, highlighting key technological advancements.
4.  Describe the basic principles of Nanopore sequencing and how it differs from previous technologies.
5.  Identify the primary advantages and limitations of each sequencing technology covered (Sanger, Illumina, Nanopore).
6.  Outline the general workflow of a DNA sequencing experiment, from sample preparation to data output.

## Readings

Relevant content for today's lecture.

TODO:

## Presentation

<!-- <iframe src="https://slides.com/aalexmmaldonado/biosc1540-2024s-l01/embed?byline=hidden&share=hidden" width="100%" height="600" title="biosc1540-2024s-L01" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe> -->

<!-- <p style="text-align: center;">
    <object hspace="50">
        <a href="/files/slides/pdfs/biosc1540-2024s-l01.pdf" target="_blank">PDF</a>
    </object>
</p> -->
