content/lectures/03/index.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
<b>Lecture 03</b><br>
Reference-guided assembly
</h1>
<p align="center">
<b>Date:</b> Sep 3, 2024
</p>

!!! danger "DRAFT"

    This page is a work in progress and is subject to change at any moment.

The session introduces essential file formats used in bioinformatics and tackles the complex challenge of reconstructing complete genomes from fragmented sequencing data.
We'll walk through the key steps and concepts of reference-guided assembly, providing a comprehensive understanding of how scattered genetic pieces are woven into a coherent genomic tapestry.

## Learning objectives

What you should be able to do after today's lecture:

1.  Describe the structure and purpose of FASTA and FASTQ file formats in storing sequence data.
2.  Identify the challenges of assembling a genome from short sequencing reads.
3.  Distinguish between de novo assembly and reference-guided assembly approaches.
4.  Outline the basic steps involved in reference-guided genome assembly.
5.  Explain key concepts in reference assembly, including read mapping, coverage, and consensus sequence generation.

## Readings

Relevant content for today's lecture.

-   [FASTA files](https://omics.crumblearn.org/appendices/file-types/fasta/)
-   [FASTQ files](https://omics.crumblearn.org/appendices/file-types/fastq/)
-   [FastQC](https://omics.crumblearn.org/genomics/assembly/qc/fastqc/) and nested content
-   [Assembly concepts](https://omics.crumblearn.org/genomics/assembly/concepts/) and nested content

## Presentation

-   **Live link:** [slides.com/d/HVHLMoo/live](https://slides.com/d/HVHLMoo/live)
<!-- -   **Download:** [biosc1540-l03.pdf](/lectures/03/biosc1540-l03.pdf) -->

<iframe src="https://slides.com/aalexmmaldonado/biosc1540-l03/embed?byline=hidden&share=hidden" width="100%" height="600" title="BIOSC 1540: Lecture 03" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Rework L03 to be quality control

content/lectures/03/index.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
<b>Lecture 03</b><br>
Quality control
</h1>
<p align="center">
<b>Date:</b> Sep 3, 2024
</p>

!!! danger "DRAFT"

    This page is a work in progress and is subject to change at any moment.

This session focuses on the critical steps of quality control and preprocessing in genomic data analysis.
We will explore the fundamentals of sequencing data formats and delve into essential techniques for assessing and improving data quality.

## Learning objectives

What you should be able to do after today's lecture:

1.  Explain the basic concepts and importance of genome assembly.
2.  Interpret FASTA and FASTQ file formats and their role in storing sequences.
3.  Perform and interpret quality control on reads using FastQC.
4.  Identify common quality issues in sequencing data and explain their potential impacts.
5.  Describe the process and importance of sequence trimming and filtering in data preprocessing.

## Readings

Relevant content for today's lecture.

-   [Genome assembly](https://omics.crumblearn.org/genomics/assembly/)
-   [Assembly concepts](https://omics.crumblearn.org/genomics/assembly/concepts/) and nested content
-   [FASTA files](https://omics.crumblearn.org/appendices/file-types/fasta/)
-   [FASTQ files](https://omics.crumblearn.org/appendices/file-types/fastq/)
-   [FastQC](https://omics.crumblearn.org/genomics/assembly/qc/fastqc/) and nested content

## Presentation

-   **Live link:** [slides.com/d/HVHLMoo/live](https://slides.com/d/HVHLMoo/live)
<!-- -   **Download:** [biosc1540-l03.pdf](/lectures/03/biosc1540-l03.pdf) -->

<iframe src="https://slides.com/aalexmmaldonado/biosc1540-l03/embed?byline=hidden&share=hidden" width="100%" height="600" title="BIOSC 1540: Lecture 03" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
